This is Jockelpontcast number 252 with Dave Burke and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening Dave.
Good evening.
EchoTrolls is taking care of some other business on the last podcast.
Number 251 with Lave Babin.
We started getting into the book guidelines for the leader and commander by General Bruce
Clark.
We only made it 13 pages into and a half hours and it's a 117 page book.
Just to recap a little bit, this is a book that I searched for for over a decade.
I originally heard about this book in my favorite book, which is called About Face by Colonel
David Hackworth.
I finally found a copy a month and a half ago.
And so here we are just a little background.
Once again on General Bruce Clark.
Number 21 World War II Korea, and listed in 1917, and they have gone to West Point, Colonel
World War II, then a general commanded the Fourth Armored Division in Patton's Third
Army, Battle of the Bulge, Distinguished Service Cross, Three Silver Stars, 45 years of service.
And then spend a bunch of time not only leading troops, but also training troops, or overseeing
training commands.
So awesome career, Hackworth talked about him glowingly in the book about face.
And that's where the start of taking me a long time to find this book.
Who did somebody texted me about it and said it was the white whale.
Like, you know, this was that it was.
Definitely hard for me to find this book, but we have it.
And that's it.
That's what we're going to do.
We're going to go back into this book.
So here we go back into guidelines for the leader and commander by Bruce General Bruce
C. Clark.
So this section starts off with administration, some thoughts for the commander.
And he says, insumation, I would like to point out the close interrelationship between
training programs and sound overall management.
So this is something, you know, when you're that young, gun-hole leader, that's just
things, hey, where you're to operate, whatever that operation is, whether it's shoot machine
guns or whether that's out, selling things or making things.
And you think, hey, I'm on the front line.
I'm going to make things happen.
And you think all the administrative stuff you shouldn't have to worry about.
That's not me.
And I know many individuals that are like that.
I know one individual in particular, that's like that whose name is Jockel.
Because I was definitely like that.
Many commanders, I was like that when I was younger.
Because I absolutely, I'd realize this and you can hear, you know, we'll talk about the
paperwork drills that we had to do and how life and Seth came to me.
We should not have to do this stuff.
And I said, oh, we're going to do it.
We're going to do it better than anybody else.
So I figured this out, but it is definitely a learning moment that people have.
And so why not learn it right now.
Many commanders are defeated by poor administration.
Imagine that.
This is that statement.
Many commanders are defeated by poor administration.
Not defeated because they were tactfully on sound, not defeated because they made bad decisions,
not defeated because they couldn't come up with a good plan.
They just fail because they're administrative losers.
Without sound administration, a commander cannot succeed in his training and maintenance programs.
The administration is nothing more than applied common sense.
I'm including here a number of items that may well be considered a checklist of indicators
of sound administration.
Number one, importance of time.
The principal coordinating device in the army is time.
Learn the proper time space factors so you can be on time and make reasonable demands
of your subordinates.
So that's number one by the way, which is probably why you hear a lot of talk about time management.
Just think about the idea that the first thing he's going to say is time.
This is someone who clearly understands that of all the resources in the world that we have.
That's the one that matters the most because we just can't produce more of that.
I was going to say it's the one that matters the most.
And it's the absolute one that we have the least control.
You know how much control do we have time?
You have zero.
You cannot stop it. You cannot bring it back.
You got to say, I have the power curve.
I hate that feeling.
And let me tell you what.
I realize this a while back.
So when you go to the airport, if you show up to the airport late,
and now look, TSA doesn't care that your late.
The baggage handler doesn't care that your late.
The Uber driver does not care what time your plane is leaving.
They're doing what they're doing.
And so what that does is it takes you have no control over that time once it started to
commence.
What do you have control over?
Going to the airport a little bit earlier.
That's all.
Not that big of a deal.
Go to the airport a little bit earlier.
And you won't have to worry about TSA.
You won't have to worry about baggage.
You won't have to worry about how long it takes for the Uber driver or the lift.
Let's give proper credit or lift driver to show up and bring you to the airport.
So how do you get control? You can't control time once it's unfolding.
You can't bring it back.
You have to plan for it appropriately.
And there's a sense of urgency.
And I don't have a pretty good sense of urgency.
And you may or may not.
I know like at the master, especially the earlier musters when we weren't when the
backside wasn't quite the well-oiled machine that it is now.
And certainly as a well-oiled machine now, the early musters, it was not a well-oiled
machine.
On the front side, people wouldn't know that when life and I were walking out on stage
at eight o'clock in the morning, we had two hours of sleep because we had to do so whatever
we had to do behind the scenes.
And that's just the way it was.
I can feel when the shortage of time.
In fact, I think I feel the shortage of time every single day, every single waking
minute.
There's a thing that happened at some point in my life.
I don't know what when that was.
But I still think about it now.
When you were just talking about the feeling, what I thought you were going to talk about
is the feeling of when you feel like you don't have enough time to do something.
So being later or whatever, or how I got stuff I needed to prepare for, it used to be
that I used to feel that it wasn't enough time.
And the feeling that makes me sick now is at any time I'm behind.
Which happens.
I look at like, man, I'm behind.
I didn't get enough done here.
I didn't prep enough here.
Feeling that bothers me the most is looking back on the time that I wasted the day before
or the week before when I thought, hey, this is now I need to get ahead.
I got a little window.
I got some white space here, which is actually pretty rare.
And I look back on the time that I wasted, which is very different than there isn't
enough time.
I honestly don't think I've ever felt like I didn't have enough time.
I always feel like I have wasted time.
And that feeling of when I'm behind or unprepared, man, that drives me nuts as I look
back on what did I do yesterday or the day before?
How did I waste so much time knowing that I can't get that back?
And that's the feeling that bothers me.
I think more than any other feeling is I wasted my time.
Yeah, that's a, that is a doozy.
And this is, by the way, item number one.
Item number one, importance of time.
Next, anticipate problems.
Troublesome incidents or situations can be avoided if the probable consequences of existing
conditions are previously anticipated.
Incidents do not occur until the stage has been set for some time.
The outstanding officer knows where things are likely to go wrong and plans preventive
action.
Spend a little bit of time thinking of through contingencies and then come up with a plan.
And you don't even have to come up with this elaborate plan.
You just have to know what you're going to do in a broad sense.
Next, personality of the commander.
Personality of the commander has an enormous influence on his unit.
In fact, the unit may be said to be nothing but an extension of the commander's personality.
It is essential that he makes his presence felt by leaving his desk to appear where work
and training go on and by talking to and knowing and influencing his men.
How many times did you see that in the Marine Corps?
How about going for like checking into a squadron?
How much would the squadron reflect the commander of the squadron?
Completely.
I mean, that was the always the ultimate difference.
Because the thing about squadrons, it's probably true in a seal team, is that if you look
at the squadrons from the outside, I was base at Miramar.
There were seven F-18 squadrons when I was there.
One paper that are all identical.
Same equipment.
Same not every metric that you would measure it.
It's all the same.
There isn't one squadron, like they get better stuff or better people.
They just get the same thing that everybody else gets.
And the only difference was obviously the commander or the leader and the squadrons would
take on those personalities.
Almost immediately when the new commander take over.
It's not, it's crazy.
It's crazy.
It's just an extension of the boat crew story and extreme ownership.
Hey, we swap out.
We put in a good leader into this boat crew that's failing and all of a sudden you've
got this totally legit boat crew that's winning.
And that happens.
How many people in a squadron?
200.
200 people.
How many aircraft?
12.
12 aircraft.
200 people.
And boom.
You put a good leader in there.
But I will say this, though.
Well, you can correct me if I'm wrong.
But the Marine Corps from my experience has a tighter group, a tighter variance on their
officers than, well, then certainly in the sealed teams.
So in other words, you might get in the sealed teams.
You might get these outstanding officers.
And then you'd get some really good officers, some solid officers that kind of like the
normal.
You have some really kick ass guys.
You have a bunch of normal guys.
And then you have the bottom group, which would be pretty outside the range.
So the range would be pretty big.
It seemed to me like the Marine Corps always had just tight.
It's more controlled.
It's a more controlled group.
It's a tighter group.
Maybe the high end is not as often that you're going to get some just guy that's outside
the box of stellar.
Look, maybe I don't know.
But I do know this.
The chances of having a Marine Corps platoon commander that doesn't meet the grade isn't
very low.
And in the sealed teams, it would happen more often because there's more slack.
There's more room.
You're giving more rope to hang yourself.
And you give guys rope.
And they can take that rope and they can turn it into something awesome or they can
make it hang themselves.
I always kind of notice that.
Yeah, I think that's right.
And when you're inside that, the disparity or that variance becomes more evident to you as
you're inside that.
And you can see that.
So there still is a variance.
And when we looked at good squadrons or bad squadrons, however you wanted to define that,
a lot of times it was kind of just a feeling.
Almost like an intangible quality of that's a good squadron and that's a bad squadron.
And the way we judge that was how did there people acted?
And other people acted?
A reflection of their leadership puts exactly what he just said.
And the squadrons would take on the persona and the personality of their leaders and the
good leaders had good squadrons.
And the bad leaders, or the leaders that weren't as good, their squadrons reflected that.
So you got 12 aircraft.
And then are those aircraft broken up into sections or platoon somehow?
Or is it just every man for himself?
No, I mean, they had 12 aircraft that didn't theory were all the same.
You know, they weren't all fliable at a time.
But no, we wouldn't break them down.
We would fly an element sometimes at two or a four ship, but the aircraft were just rotated
through so you could be in any given aircraft on any day.
So in a seal platoon, you could have a great officer.
And you could have a great platoon.
You could also have a great platoon chief or a great leading pettioser or a system platoon commander
chances are you're not going to get a pipe hitting system.
So you can get some really solid guys, but they just don't have to experience it.
So basically what you needed was ah, ah, singular, really good leader.
Didn't necessarily need to be the top guy, but somebody, you know, at a seal team, you
might have a great seal team commanding officer.
You also might have, and that could really make the whole seal team great.
You could also have a great seal team command master chief who is a kickass guy.
You could have a great seal, uh, ops master chief.
So as long as you had one of these guys in the team that was legit badass, you could
you're going to pull it off.
Unless you get somebody that's an idiot in there too.
If you get somebody with a big ego, you know, the command master chief has a big
ego or the commanding officer has a big ego and also you got conflict, then you know, all
bets are off and we got man.
But chances are if you got one good leader, you're going to, you're going to, the, the, the
group will take on the personality of the commander.
So if you don't like the personality of your team, guess what?
Ha, go look in the mirror.
Next, counseling of individuals at the company level, the commander and the champion of
the ones to whom the men will come for guidance when they have to, when they have or think
they have problems.
Discamanders are usually surprised, the number of men who actually have real personal difficulties.
These may take a variety of forms, money troubles, family difficulties, disciplinary problems,
character weaknesses and spiritual conflicts.
The commander's problem is too old.
First, he must train himself to recognize and to look for the early signs that identify
a man with problems.
Early recognition of a problem, like timely diagnosis of a disease makes the treatment and
cure easier.
Second, having identified the problem, the commander must take the proper steps to correct it,
often his own counseling will have to be sufficient.
But in other cases, he left a call on others for help.
Here is the central that the correct source be used.
That the man who's pay record is incorrect, shouldn't be sent to the chaplain, but to
the finance clerk.
All right.
So we're, we're, we're making sure that we identify problems.
We have to look for that.
This has always been a problem for me because no one ever tells me anything when something's
going wrong.
No one wants to tell me that they're overworked or they don't want to do another operation
or whatever.
No one ever wants to tell me that.
So I have to drag it out of people.
I have to have intel sources that will tell me that the troops are getting tired or the
guys are worn out or whatever.
Recognition of outstanding work.
This is the next section.
Make sure way to instill loyal to you to recognize outstanding work from your subordinates.
Satisfaction in a job well done as a trait of all men and recognition by others of the same
good work will appeal to the vanity that lies in all of us.
Another thing I'm bad at.
I'm horrible at recognizing people for good work.
I just think everyone's doing what they should be doing and it's very seldom that I
take the time to like think somebody I usually have to think about it.
I'm horrible at that.
Life has told me though that when I would say something that someone did good they'd
be super stoked that if we go would be fired up.
Recognition can take many forms.
Decorations letters of commendation or a acknowledgement of formation or the issuance
of a three day pass but whatever the form is essential that the commander is a commander
be alert to outstanding performance and give timely public recognition when it is due.
Can I just what about just a simple head nod?
Is that work?
Yeah that can work man.
I mean part of that is you got to pay attention to what matters to your people and you know
the thing that I always craved the most the recognition.
I didn't.
The recognition I wanted was to be left alone and if my leadership didn't when my leadership
wasn't micromanaging me and giving me the flexibility that that was him okay I must be
doing something right.
Cool we're good but there's nothing wrong with the recognition.
I'm not trying to pile on the idea of like don't acknowledge your people's good work but
what matters to somebody doesn't always matter to everybody and you got to actually pay
attention what matters and over time the the head nod and keep doing what you're doing
dude that's good to go.
Yeah you know I had trouble with this because and I still do because you know when
you're the boss right well in my mind you know if I say hey Dave good job I just I think
you don't care about that because I'm just some other guy that's trying to work hard whatever
and I remember I've told the story before I was first got to Ramadi needed a certain type
of laptop computer for my office and the radio guy the IT guy the radio man guy who's
a great dude I told him hey I need to have I need to have a zipper and a nipper laptop
side by side and he's okay we don't really have enough nipper these are I need a classified
computer and an unclassified computer side by side so that when I was working I could if I
needed some information that was from the unclassified side I could look it up if and and
then continue to work on whatever else working on.
So I remember I said hey I called him into the tech operations and I said hey I want a
classified computer here and an unclassified computer here and he goes well we don't really
have enough unclassified computers and I kind of went okay and then a few minutes later I
walked through the the chow haul and we had set up this unclassified computer station with
six computers for everyone to use now everyone had computers in their tent too this wasn't
like you know everyone was lined up to use these six computers no it was just somebody decided
hey we'll put some internet computers out here and so I walked out there said wait a second
we have all these unclassified computers right here and I went back and said hey man those
computers that other get one to me and he was like oh Roger that and I realized oh I need to
make the call on that and what I say has impact you know and so when you say something negative
it has a big impact because you know sometimes I say that that plan doesn't make any sense
and everyone just be well be quiet because they think that you don't like the plan
when reality is you're just thinking maybe I could come up with a different plan so you got
the overall and I wrote about this in leadership strategy tactics your words have power and
impact so remembering that when you give someone some compliments it may have some it has as
more significance than you might think efficiency reports I was I was thinking myself when I saw
this I was like I you know I'll kind of skip over this who cares you know no one wants to hear
about efficiency reports then I read it nice it oh I will absolutely include this with the
advent of enlisted efficiency reports the command so efficiency reports so for in the civilian
sector with the suit boiled down to you know unvaluations are performance evaluation for someone
the commander now has a new tool which will assist him in gaining the desired motivation from
his key enlisted personnel too often the efficiency report becomes the padlock on the barn door
after the horse has been stolen what a great way to think about wasting some kind of evaluation
format performance evaluation hey Dave you went and did something for a year you did your job
and then you show up after a year and I say yeah you didn't do that great of a job woo what good is that
the barn are the there were started got stolen I have found that unacceptable performance
and the resultant bad efficiency reports can often be reduced to a minimum through early
effective observation and counseling G what a novel idea when Dave starts screwing up don't wait
six months to give the efficiency report say hey Dave it's been three weeks you've been on this
project I already see that you're heading the wrong direction let's talk if a commander makes it a
practice to observe his men closely and call them in periodically for an evaluation of their
performance in terms of strengths and weaknesses he can often correct deficiencies without it
becoming necessary to issue an unsatisfactory efficiency report boom it's a tool that you've got
that you can use a three part program of and here's the three parts observation and evaluation
counseling and guidance of the individual and individual and then further observation to determine
the response to the counseling is your key to effective use of the efficiency report then it
becomes a tool for improvement rather than merely a reward or punishment for past performance wow
wow imagine that and it's unsap because in the navy you get an evaluation or a fitness report
once a year and there's a lot of companies that we work with that do something similar there's
that's just not often it's not often enough it's not even close and those periodic
evaluations they actually don't even need to be that formal it's really just the core of building
relationships is getting to know your people by being out with them the best thing you can do is
know your people well enough to be able to recognize when they're going in the wrong direction
and if you talk to your people once a year you're not going to know that because you don't even know
what their typically like and so if I'm working with you and and I know Jaco pretty well and all
of a sudden Jaco shows up one day and he's not Jaco I can get involved right then but the only way
for me to tell that you're not yourself or not doing the things that I'm used to is I got to be
around you just a little bit more and you don't need to track all this stuff every single time you don't
need to know the formal piece of it and formal counseling is important but the best tool you've
got is actually know them well enough to go something's not right and if you can intercept that
on day one rather than day 30 or 60 or 90 not only do you actually help solve that problem that
other person recognizes that you know and care about them enough to get involved and being able to
do that is really a function of your time more than anything else of being around your people to
know them well enough to identify that when they're off the path so it comes down as high
management when I talk about planning and I say okay if I give Dave a mission tasking and say okay
Dave come up with a plan and how you want to do this if I leave for 12 hours and you were 3
degrees off and you're what you thought you should do versus what I thought you should do I come
back 12 hours there's 12 hours of wasted time because you've been going on on the wrong direction
and now you're way off course if I go hey Dave here's the here's the mission you need to
execute here's the task come up with your you know some connoffs I'll be back in a half an hour
your 3 degrees off it oh I barely even takes a nudge to get you right back on track and we're we're
tracking so the earlier you give people corrective measures the the the minimum the the the limit
of what you have to do to get them back on course is is totally limited it's the minimum
workforce required so if you and I if I said hey Dave here's a mission tasking come up with how
you want to do I'll be back in half an hour when I came back in a half an hour and you're 3 degrees
off course I barely I probably would be able to get you back on course by asking you will
not even tell me anything just by saying hey what do you think about what do you think about
this area up to the north do you think that's a you think there could be enemy up there
that's kind of what the intel says right and you say yeah and I'd say oh
are you gonna put a blocking force up there you didn't have a blocking force in your plan
you go yes absolutely and cool now we're totally square yeah if I walk away for 12 hours
and let you come up with a plan you're wide open to the enemy attack from the north you have
you use your blocking force in a totally different area you don't even have enough people now
because you so it's just it's totally wrong and now we got to come in with blunt force trauma
and now it's not your planning anymore you've given up on a ship it's just it's just a nightmare
it's crazy so the earlier I get involved the less force I have to use and my goal is the
leaders to use the minimum force required and the longer I wait to use force but worse it's
gonna be and if you're out there thinking about the time the the daunting task of spending
all that time up front the ROI on your investment of time of front is is it's it's unlimited
because if you make that investment up front which seems like a lot of time what you save on the back
end of that so from the time manager standpoint yes yes it is an additional investment of a
little bit of time upfront it is and you got to account for that time that is not free time
but what you save from that ROI all day all day it's not even close and you know what is funny
is you you're I disagree with you because you say it's this big investment up front it's not
so low investment up front it's me going hey Dave how are you gonna execute this and you go
all my do it like this and I go oh don't forget there's enemy up there you are I'm gonna put
a blocking for sure okay cool there we go that's how that was it that took 18s that's the story we tell
ourselves like hey I can't come back in 30 minutes because you actually can't you're absolutely right
and it's the idea of whatever it seems like I don't have time a you do have time and if you do
need to do some mental calculation of that time the ROI in that time is well worth whatever
you might miss for that five minute check-in that happens up front and it also shows another person oh
joccal care joccal is in the game joccal is paying attention I wonder if that means I'm gonna be more
or less interested in giving you a really good plan if I know you care about it you know it's
interesting too ROI the ROI on time is that it doesn't even make sense and I'll tell you why
because I don't get that time back if you're supposed to execute a mission tonight and I give you
12 hours to plan and I go hey here's the mission you got to execute and I don't come back and check in
by the time 12 hours go by and I realize that your plan is a total disaster it's not that the ROI
it's not I don't get return on my investment it's that we it's that it's it's bankrupt so it's total failure
it's total in complete failure I can't even get it back the ROI is negative it's it's horrible
where as a little investment upfront total gain changer totally now here's another section I wasn't
gonna read and I remember I I sent you a picture of this book or sections of the book and you you said
just read the whole just you're gonna just cover the whole thing yeah and I was kind of like yeah you
know that's cool I'm sure I'll cover a lot of it but you know I'm always I don't want to waste people's
time so I'm looking for okay what can we streamline a little bit so there's this section called
promotion then look if you're in the civilian world how much do you care about how they advance
people in the army in 1952 right whatever and then I read it a little bit okay well looks like we're
covering this too and I'll tell you how it a second so it says promotion the promotion policy of a
commanders of a command has a strong bearing on morale and overall efficiency it must be fair
and by the way this is one thing that you're gonna start to pick up in this section of the book
and in some of the other sections there is absolutely part of general clerk that is looking to get promoted
and he you can feel it and there's gonna be other places where you feel it and what's cool is
you'll feel it and he'll say it and then a little later on he'll he'll hint that you know what that
doesn't really even matter so we're gonna go back and forth we're gonna come up with some of these
things where you say okay he's a he's a guy that really cares that's in the game just to get promoted
right which I am not a big proponent of hey your main reason to be in the game is get promoted that being said
if I have got a team and I want to take care of my team well how do I how do I do the best job
take my care of my team I get promoted so I have more leverage and more power and I can be positive
influence on even more people so getting promoted if you're getting promoted for yourself
we don't like that and by the way when I say we I'm talking about the people that work for you
if you're getting promoted for yourself they don't like it we don't like that but if you're
getting promoted so that you can help the team achieve their mission protect the team take care of
the team grow the team influence the team in a positive way if that's why you're getting promoted
cool good on you good we we like that you're doing it for the right reasons and if you think if you
think if you think you can sneak around and get promoted for yourself but you don't really be
to I promise in you I promise you everybody sees it so promotion it must be fair
buy it the commander can encourage men to develop themselves for permissions for positions of
supervision and leadership the commander should consider the following qualifications and attributes
when considering a man for promotion so he goes into a list and what I did and what I wrote down here
was when I go through this list aim the aim this list at yourself you aim this list at yourself
are you promoteable number one reliability number one reliability when when I talk about relationships
I use the word relationships I'm really talking about trust and trust if you don't have trust
inside of a team all those lost well yeah so the question is how do you build trust well let me
give you a good hint the number one clue right here be reliable be reliable okay so that's number one
number two his knowledge of his present job and his preparation for the next higher one so be
knowledgeable proficiency text test scores leadership can he direct men
ability to organize and manage a job okay these are all things if you aim these things at
yourself it is a powerful thing to think about knowledge to detect and courage to correct errors
in subordinates initiative does he perform well without close supervision appearance military
courtesy and neatness this makes me happy that I wrote the warrior kid books
maintenance of equipment individual and organizational attitude loyalty enthusiasm
ability as an instructor ability as an instructor and I'll tell you what I've been thinking
about and there's a couple of the things that we'll clue in on this we've been talking we've been
developing leadership certification program at echelom front and one of the things that we've been
dancing around is the fact that there's there's maybe well we we were dancing around with like
two different pipelines like you're either a trainer that's going to train people how to lead
or your leader and you're in a supervisor position and your management position and your leader
and then we've kind of got into a point where we say listen these are the same thing and in
order to become a good leader you have to be able to teach you have to be able to show people how to
do things so it's interesting that he's got ability as an instructor because listen if I'm going
to promote you Dave from you know from being in charge of a squad to being in charge of a tune
I want you to be able to teach I want you to be able to instruct that is absolutely important
and and in a leadership environment i want you to be able to teach the team about leadership.
I want you to be able to teach when I put you in charge of a tune I want you to be able to teach
your squad leaders how to lead. I want you to be able to teach your fire team leaders how to lead
and I also want you to be able to teach them how to break down a 240g. I want you to be able
to teach us gesagt so the ability to be an instructor is important and it's equally important
because when we teach, we learn.
Yeah.
That second point was what I was thinking in my head a lot is, you know, top gun for
my community is kind of the apex of instruction.
You know, the quality of instruction is is kind of at its peak there because you
get to focus just on that.
You don't have all these other distractions going on so you focus on that.
I learned more there than I did anywhere else.
And the ability to teach is really comes from how much you truly understand something.
And for me, being able to fly an airplane or run the radar or manage the systems, a lot
of people can do that.
But when you try to teach something, it exposes your gaps in knowledge.
And a good teacher, when they break down what they're going to teach, they recognize,
oh, I don't actually understand this very well.
So before I teach it to you, I get to go learn about this more.
So the learning connected to the teaching, I learned more because my obligation was to teach
it.
And as I'm learning to teach, expose all the things I didn't know.
So a good teacher actually has to understand it better than anybody else.
And that connection between those two is so critical.
And the idea of teaching is I think a reflection or anything of how well you truly know
something.
And you don't really test yourself and how well you know it until you have to explain
it to somebody else.
Yeah.
So I started, I just wrote down, you know, I hope he's about to say that as you teach
you learn.
And that's exactly what you said.
You identify the gaps in your own knowledge and you go, okay, better figure this out.
A better go run the stroke.
I better pull the thread on that until I understand it better.
Next participation in unit and community activities does he use his time off to improve
himself.
Aim that one at yourself.
Is he a good soldier all the time?
Is the job he has charged with being done better now than it was when he took over?
Judgment in common sense, a good scale of values, ability to receive and carry out instructions
has he been efficiently filling his grade position, accident record, incident record,
a wall in article 15, which means it has the dude gotten in trouble before.
Really powerful list, there may be other considerations.
They should add up to confidence that the man will play as part well under any conditions
especially in unusual situations.
What's interesting about that?
Why does that make me think awesome thoughts?
Because what that says is that this military guy who believes in discipline and believes
in being able to do your job and being able to receive and carry out instructions, that's
what he said.
He wants you to be especially able to perform in unusual situations.
How do you get good at performing on unusual situations?
You get tested, you get tasked, you get things thrown at you and you have to use your mind.
It's great that you have the ability to receive and carry out instructions.
This is my point.
Think that you have the ability to receive and carry out instructions.
That's great.
But if I throw something in usual at you and what you have to do is figure it out and you
don't know how to do that, we got it all proble.
Unless you want him as a member of your team do not promote him or recommend him for
promotion.
The promotion policy of a unit commander should be published and understood by all.
Then it goes through this next section, elimination of ineffective personnel.
Like automatorship, when the higher one the fire, when a mentor will wind the fire.
It is the commander's duty to contribute to raising the standards of the United States
Army.
What a beast statement that is.
It is that commander's duty to contribute to raising the standards of the United States
Army.
I want to approach this goal is a continuous evaluation of his personnel.
Officers, non-commission officers and enlisted men like.
When ineptness is revealed or continuing ineffectiveness is detected in officers and non-commission
officers, it is the commander's duty to see that corrective measures are taken elimination
or reduction in grade as appropriate.
So you have done your escalation of counseling, I have done everything I can to achieve
if I can straighten Dave Burke out, he can't make it happen.
Dave Burke needs to go bye-bye.
The importance of a good but fair reduction policy is often overlooked.
Few things disrupt the unit more than the presence of inefficient leaders.
G.
That comes as a big shock.
Few things disrupt the unit more than the presence of inefficient leaders.
So let's think about this.
If Dave's working for me and Dave is inefficient and Dave doesn't do a good job and Dave
drops the ball and Dave's working for me and I continue to allow Dave to be there.
What does the team think of him?
What does it say about you as a leader?
It says I suck as a leader.
That's what it says.
Or it says that you don't actually care because this leader this day that's underperforming,
who is he actually affecting?
He's affecting the whole team and you know, a synonym for that reduction rank is that's
rank is essentially responsibility.
So as your rank grows in the military, you know, responsibility grows.
So you don't have to have a ranking structure in your organization.
You've got responsibility for, you know, this guy is a team leader or supervisor or impact
the team.
This guy's underperformance that you tolerate.
Doesn't just affect this underperformance.
It's all the people in his influence and they're looking at you saying this is what
Jocca was going to put up with this is the bar that he's going to tolerate and he'll
by the way, this affects me personally and just like on the other extreme of getting rid
of people way too soon, way too premature that you haven't invested in, keeping the wrong
people around in terms of what that does to your leadership capital.
Regulations provide for the reduction of enlisted men and the separation of officers
for an inefficiency and actual performance of their job or as a result of misconduct.
The latter is where where we fall most often.
We fail, or sorry, the latter is where we fail most often.
We fail because we do not face up to the fact that key personnel to be good leaders of
young men must also have good character.
More character will inevitably manifest itself in poor conduct, leaders influence the actions
of their subordinates.
Most leaders are considered by those of less rank as highly qualified and competent.
Therefore, when poor conduct is manifested off duty by anyone in leadership capacity, it
has a detrimental effect on the entire unit.
Especially dangerous in this regard are those key personnel who are outstanding in their
work.
Or their influence is even greater on troops who, observing them, will often emulate their
actions even to the point of delinquency.
If this condition persists, it can lead to a broken breakdown of discipline throughout
the unit in an incredibly short time.
Leaders with character deficiencies, regardless of how good they might appear in field training,
or a luxury we cannot afford.
Would you write down?
I wrote down character and conduct.
I was thinking as you are reading this, you cannot, and I learned this in the Marine Corps.
You cannot separate your work life from some other part of your life.
If you were a leader, you are committed to being a leader all the time.
Where you are scrutinized, the most risk is how you act off the clock, if you want to call
that.
I can stand up in front of my Marines and tell them all the things I expect from them.
Whatever those might be, I can make a list that are all good and I could behave like that
at work.
If I go out and down or back in my personal life, anywhere else outside of work, and I reveal
that I don't live by the expectations I set for my people.
My character is revealed that I don't actually apply those to myself.
The degree to which that undermines me as a leader at work is actually much worse than
if I just wasn't great at work and I'm just working on it and trying to get better.
Your character, your character, sooner or later, is going to be revealed.
Because you're going to find yourself in a place where you think nobody is looking,
you're going to find yourself in an environment where you think it's okay and who you are
is going to come out.
He said, I wish I wrote an exact what his character will be connected to your conduct.
Who you really are eventually is going to influence how you behave?
If your plan is to put on a good front at work, you're going to get found out and the damage
to that your credibility and the damage to the team, if that's, that you just simply cannot
separate who you are as a leader and have a period of time or a place where you don't have
to hold yourself to that same standard.
That's what I wrote down when you were talking was, hey, you can try and put up
that front, you already said, well, you try and put up that front.
If you and your mind and your little tiny brain, because it is tiny, if this is what you think
you have a small brain.
If in your brain, your tiny little brain you think it doesn't really matter no one will
notice your brain is small and you are stupid because everybody sees that, everybody.
And everybody is watching you all the time.
They're watching you.
They see you all the time.
Easy.
While the commander should place heavy emphasis on re-enlistment and do all in his power
to retain effective personnel, he should bear in mind that the army wants quality not
quantity, make your program selective.
Social life, every army post should be close, net, happy family.
Commanders can foster this by ensuring that families of their men have adequate social life.
A particular importance is the inclusion of youth activities designed, especially for youth
and not for adults, good programs in this field will not just happen, they will require
your best people.
You know when you start looking at building what you just said, you know, how do you expect
the people to act if you haven't given them a good support structure with their family?
Just doesn't work.
It is essential that all recommendations he talks about this non-commissioned officers
advisory council, which is, hey, you've got to, you've got to, you can, you can
have a symbol groups of your workers, of your team, of your employees, the leaders, the
frontline troops, you can assemble groups of them and get feedback from them.
And he says it's essential that all recommendations receive the attention of the major
commander concerned for failure to act on justified recommendations will defeat the whole
purpose of having these councils.
And you know, it's interesting we've been doing some work at echelon front with some of these
councils, which is always cool because now you're getting people from different, different
cross sections of the company that are sort of these councils and that's been interesting.
It's been very interesting.
And it's kind of what we do anyways when we go into a company, we, you know, we get
a cross section, but it's nice when the companies already have a cross section that we are
talking to.
So, if you're running a company right now or if you're in a company right now, it's
a good idea to think about putting together some kind of a council where you say, hey,
we need to take the best ideas, take the best practices, take the grievances that we have,
assemble them together in a logical way to push them up the chain of command because if the,
if the boss, you know, has us work and laid every Friday and the boss doesn't know how much
that negatively impacts us, how can we expect them to change it?
Answer, we cannot get together.
Put forth information in a consolidated effort so that the boss knows what's happening.
And if you're the boss and you get that feedback, implement as best you can act on it.
Yeah.
Direction staffs, the staff is no more than an extension of the commander's abilities and
a good commander must be able to handle the staff property.
Officers of a staff should carry out the commander's policies enthusiastically by the same
token.
They should bring to the attention of the commander, those matters deserving his personal
attention.
Staff visits to make sound decisions the commander must receive timely and reliable reports from
his staff, which means that his staff must visit unit activities.
So talk to us, Dave, about what they're talking about when they say staff.
So like when I was a commander of a unit, my staff, I had, I had subordinate leaders that
were responsible for different elements.
So I'd have like an operation staff that ran the operations.
I have a maintenance staff that ran the maintenance and logistics and supply and all the
different components.
And I would underneath these leaders, which were really staff officers kind of building the
plans were a whole bunch of people implementing their processes or their SOPs or whatever
they created.
If you got a staff officer, someone working for you that has a plan and has their team implementing
the plan out in the field or out on the flight line.
And they don't go out there to see how effective it is, what the real barriers are, what
the problems are, and they are sort of operating in that vacuum of their staff position
or in their cubicle their office.
And they're out out there with those people.
They have no sense of the real feedback of the problems and the challenges that people
facing while they're implementing their plans.
And so it comes, I think it's as simple as what you described.
I think you said it like in the first pages, leave your office and go out and spend time
with your people to see what's really going on down there.
But what if seven years ago I had that job and I kind of remember what it was like back
then?
Is that good?
Is that a cover of me?
No.
The, it also is just the connection to having your people see that you're willing to go out
there and just spend time with them.
The benefit of spending time with your people.
On one sense it's actually really important and we can talk about all the different things
that I would learn when I just spent time with my people.
I learned about things.
I learned how things worked.
I learned the challenges they had.
But there is a matter, there is some level of effort that it takes for you to get away
from your desk as a leader to go spend time with your people.
And most of the time your troops actually understand that.
They know it's not as simple for the CEO to just get away.
So when you do the power of, of you doing that on, is really significant.
They recognize that you're making the effort to do it.
If your plan is to do, we call these touch and go, I had to go out there and show your
face to the team.
If that's your kind of like, hey, I'm going to show my face and you don't actually get
out spend time with them, they're going to see that coming in my way.
But if you just spend a little time, what you'll end up getting is a bunch of unfiltered
feedback that didn't run through the chain and get chopped by all your staff, although
we have to you, you get unfiltered.
Get sterilized totally.
You know what, what you want more than anything, you want a 19 year old Lance Corporal
who is turning a wrench on a jet to explain to you why this is hard.
Now, of course, you want to use the chain to come in.
I want that to run through the chain.
I want to see that multiple ways.
But if you want unfiltered feedback to which really going on with your team, you have to
get down to spend time with your team.
That being said, back to the book.
It is essential, however, that a staff officer making such visits understands the thin
line that divides staff supervision from metal some interference.
So there's the dichotomy of leadership.
He'll be jumping the chain.
He must realize that he is not a commander.
He should avoid criticizing subordinate commanders and report and said they're shortcomings.
Two is commander and should you see that his reports reflect favorably as well as unfavorable
conditions.
So you've got to make sure that you're not just being a rat going out there.
And you've got to make sure that you don't interfere.
It can cause interference.
If Dave, you're having a meeting at S.L.M.
front and you've got all the instructors because you want to cover some L-dap information
and you're doing a Zoom meeting and you're going to talk shop about a bunch of different
things and all of a sudden I just pop in there.
Well, you know, what am I doing in there?
And you had a agenda and all of a sudden I'm in there.
There's times where I'm just causing interference.
And that's really not what we're looking to do.
Now all that being said, go ahead.
I was just going to say, especially as I got more senior when I was in charge of an entire
squadron.
My bias was actually towards trying to spend time.
And my bias was towards normalizing the review of me as a person.
And let me just explain that for a minute.
Every single person in the squadron knew who the squadron commander was.
Everybody from the next the next in command to me, my number two guy, all the way down
to the most my most junior marine.
And if I did nothing, the natural state would be for them to put almost put me in
a pedestal.
Now they couldn't even relate to me as a person.
Along with that, I really didn't have a lot of time.
I was busy doing a lot of things, especially dealing with higher headquarters and other
components.
So I didn't have all day every day.
So the times that I was out there was rare because I'd simply had a lot going on.
So my bias and I'm talking the needle a little bit off center.
My bias was if I could spend a little more time and set up a little less time, if I could
get a little more understanding what's going on, then a little less, that was my bias.
Because the natural tendency for most people would almost put a commander on a pedestal.
It's not even a person.
He's elevated to a status, it's almost unrelatable.
And if I could create just a little bit of falling of, hey, I'm a normal person.
I really want to know what's going on in here.
I really want to have some connection on what you're doing.
I would bias towards that.
There were so many other forces at play.
There was very little risk of me being the type of guy that I'm just hanging out, I hate
what's going on down here.
How's your boss and what?
So the risk of there was lower, the other point, I think that point is totally valid.
And the reason I'm making mention of this is that at least in the military, the chain
of command is understood.
And the barrier for me was that being so rigid that people didn't see me as a person who
really want to know what's going on.
So I would bias in that direction as if I was splitting the difference when what I was
going to do, I would try to spend more time than less.
If you're not seen as a human being, you don't have connections with the troops, if you
don't have connections with the troops, none of this, none of it, nothing that we're talking
about even matters, anyway, shape or form basically.
Basically, you've got to be a person.
The question of visitors, back to the book, a commander can expect many inspectors and visitors
and it should be his policy to encourage and welcome visits and import from important
officials.
This of course means that his house must be constantly kept in order.
That is how it should be for the unit that is uniformly excellent in all things that
all times is one that will be outstanding in battle.
Look upon visitors not as interruptions or harassment, but as the chance to show the public
just how really good your unit is.
That's pretty epic, dude.
That is so important.
I keep coming back to my time as a squadron commander, because when I commanded a unit,
it was the very first operational F-35 B squadron in the world.
It was the focal point of all things marine aviation.
It was a under emichor scope, and we had visitors all the time.
Everything from US senators, four star generals, local congressmen, everybody wanted, there's
a massive investment in time and they wanted to know what was going on.
There's a propensity towards when we get a note, hey, you're getting a notification, you're
getting this delegation's coming to visit.
They would focus their time on his preparing for that visit.
I wanted no time spent on preparation for the visit.
We're not going to clean the floors.
We're going to operate as normal.
I want them to come down and see, and if you are actually at that square to a unit, you
don't need to prepare for those visits.
If your plan is, oh, they're coming, hey, everybody started cleaning up.
Shot in your boots and empty and trash cans and cleaning the tops of doors that you
things you would not normally do.
My view on visits was they can show up any place, any time, anywhere with no notice.
I don't care.
If I'm not there, no factor.
Somebody will cover down.
Staff Sergeant will cover down, Lieutenant, I don't care.
The message that sent to the Marines was twofold.
As one is hit the boss, doesn't freak out when people come to visit.
It's no big deal.
If we're actually a square to waste with, think we are, who cares?
Show up, come check it out.
You're going to see what you're going to see is the best squadron in the world.
That's what you're going to see.
So no factor.
Visits are not a big deal.
Check, unit athletic programs, athletic programs developed in conjunction with the physical
fitness program.
We'll do much to enhance the physical stamina of unit.
Why do I cover this?
Why do I, why don't I even cover this?
Well, because it's true.
Well, because if we're out there, so focused on leadership that we don't, we let our
physical bodies fall apart, we're wrong.
And he knows that an active, an active interest in athletics is provided by the commander
through proper motivation and personal interest.
A well-planned and integrated athletic program is an important part of any unit training
program.
It will take the minds of the men off what some of them consider as the monotony of training.
We'll keep the command and better physical shape, help build a unit, a speed of core, help
develop self-discipline and team spirit.
Man, we get away from that.
Emphasis in athletic programs should be on the small unit level, such as company battery
troop rather than at higher levels.
So look, I don't know what situation you're in in life or what your business is doing,
but doing something physical together is very, very helpful.
Anybody that's ever done an FTAx with echelon front, it was exactly what you're talking.
Yeah, even come to the master.
Come to the master and come do PT at the master and you're doing something that's hard,
but it's fun and we're having a good time.
We're doing them, by the way, we're doing the master December 4th and 5th.
No, December 3rd and 4th in Texas.
And we're still going to do PT, we're not quite figured out what we're doing instead
of due jutsu on the closing night, but we're going to figure something awesome out.
But why?
Why do we do that?
Because people feel better.
It brings the, look, people that will have thousand people there, well, for the
master in the next master, we want to have thousand people there.
We'll probably have a third of that or maybe half that.
But people from all over the country will get together.
They've never met before and they will bond in 45 minutes of early morning PT.
If you get up at five in the morning and PT, you'll be less tired than if you got up
at seven in the morning and went straight to the conference room.
You'll be less tired.
Stopped at the donut factory.
So he talks about attractive living areas, you know, providing people a good place to live.
Well, that applies with applying, supplying people to good place to work.
Maintenance and supply economy.
You'll recall that on the subject of training habits, I said that men will do in combat.
What they have been taught and practice in training.
This is equally true in the area of maintenance.
For in combat, high maintenance standards become a matter of life and death of equal
significance is supply economy.
That wasted bullet or gallon of gas may seem insignificant now, but what a difference
it may make when the chips are down exclamation point.
I think that's the only exclamation point.
He uses in this book.
You train how you fight and if you're allowed to be sloppy or cut corners and not do the
maintenance, where you're going to end up in a bad way.
Good leadership on the company level can only thrive in a climate of good commander ship
on the battalion level and above.
What company commanders have a right to expect from commanders above?
So here, look, if you're working, if you're a boss, this is what you should be providing
to the people below you.
That their honest errors be pointed out, but be underwritten at least once in the interest
of developing initiative and leadership.
Boom.
What does that mean?
It means if someone makes mistake one time, you don't drop the hammer on them, you
show them support that they had initiative, that they showed good leadership.
So that's what we're supposed to point them out.
Hey Dave, bad initiative or good initiative, bad judgment.
You know, I like that you took action, but let's think through the action that you
took.
That's fine.
To be responsible for and be allowed to develop their own units with only essential guidance
from above.
You are responsible for developing, however you want to do it, Dave, you got your team,
however you want to develop that team.
Here's the minimum requirements and this is the mission.
Only the essential guidance.
What do we say?
We say minimum force required.
We want to lead with a minimum force required.
A helpful attitude toward their problems, loyalty down as well as up, that they not be subjected
to the needling of unproductive statistics, competitions between like units, just harassing
people, the best in command or ship, that the needs of their units be anticipated and provided
for.
That's not too much to ask that I anticipate that Dave's going to need more bullets or
more ammunition or more fuel.
And I have it for him to be kept oriented as to the mission and situation of the unit
above, well, fought out program of training, work and recreation, good training and work
management to receive timely, clear cut and positive orders and decisions which are not
constantly changed.
The integrity of their tactical units be maintained in assigning essential tasks.
That was so smart.
That was a little trick that I did.
I would keep my little fire teams together, keep the squad together as much as I could
I could keep the platoon together as much as I could look.
We were interoperable.
But if you can keep a fire team together, they are so good to go.
You want them tied.
You think a couple of them you said anticipate the needs of their units be anticipated and
provided for them.
Think about that word though that the needs are anticipated.
That is a real word in there.
That is not, I'm here.
Hey, when you run out of stuff, come up and tell me, hey, and you run it through the
chain and command and give me the the triple kit paperwork to give you what you need.
It's me knowing what's going on down there and going, hey, Jocco, you're the team
who have been getting after it man.
How's your stash of this supplier?
How's this going on here?
Are you running low?
Work in this not to get this to you and you're thinking damn.
He didn't just cut us loose.
He's actually paying attention when it's going on down here and I was about to send up
the request but I don't like asking my boss for stuff so I was kind of worried about
asking him and he's thinking, I've noticed you guys have been cranking, do you need some
of this?
You're anticipating the needs.
Not just responding to their needs but actually thinking about it.
I mean, you want to talk about being a commander, being a leader, knowing what your people
are going through and giving them what they need before they have to ask for it.
That word is no small word.
Yeah.
And then the parsing of that word that you just used could clarify that for everyone here.
You said you need to actually think about it.
What does that mean?
That means while you're daydreaming while you're sitting around doing whatever you're
doing this anticipation isn't just going to come and smack you in the face.
You need to set aside a little time.
You need to look at what that unit's doing.
You need to figure out you need to actually think about what's going on.
What a novel idea.
That reminds me of way the warrior kid where the first one, Mark thinks he should know
his times tables and Uncle J.X.
will have you studied and he says, what do you mean study?
I should just know him.
No.
And you're not going to be able to just randomly anticipate people's needs.
You need to actually think about it.
And the last one in this chapter.
Oh, sorry, not the last one yet.
That their successes be measured by the overall ability of a unit to perform its whole mission
and not by the performance of one or two factors.
So look at people holistically.
Look at units holistically.
And then this is the last one that good works by their units be recognized and rewarded
in such a way as to motivate the greatest number to do well and seek further improvement.
Good.
Now we're going to roll into chapter two.
This is called leadership versus popularity.
And this is interesting.
This is where I start to sometimes when I'm reading leadership things in my way.
Wow, that's really not my viewpoint.
Hold on a second.
Like this is a little.
And then I continue to read and I find, oh, he's saying it a little bit differently
but he or he sometimes people are actually saying something different but they don't
even mean it.
They don't even mean it.
And you're just to see what I'm talking about.
So leadership versus popularity, the example of a strong leader.
During the World War II period, I served as a division commander.
I served a division commander as his chief of staff and later as one of his combat commanders
for a period of over two years.
He was a strong character and a strong leader.
He had firm ideas about things that he liked and disliked and placed requirements on his
officers and men in the fields of wearing equipment and uniforms tactical disposition during
field training, the care and handling of vehicles and other things, many of which were
unpopular.
At one time in an evening discussion period, I pointed out that these requirements to him and
asked him if he felt that the effort he put into them was not excessive for the practical
results which he achieved.
His answer gave me insight into the problems of training and preparations and preparing
troops for emergencies or battle for which I've never forgotten.
He stated that in case of an emergency or battle, a commander was required to place upon
his officers and men many requirements that were unpopular and for which time was not available
for hesitation.
The thought of being popular or unpopular should never enter the mind of a commander.
That's the part where I start going, heesh, wait a second, what are we talking about?
I'm not totally there yet, but I'm a little nervous because what this translates to and
Lafes talked about this before.
Lafes had someone come and speak to the junior officers and senior officers and the message
was, in no uncertain terms, when you're in charge, you should not be liked.
You should not be liked.
When you're in charge, you're going to make all these hardices.
People aren't going to like you.
You need to be okay with that.
Lafes had to kind of like when this senior officer would leave, Lafes had to like back
these guys down and say, listen, let me put that in perspective.
So this is he pointed out that a commander who was unable to obtain compliance with unpopular
requirements from his officers or men during training and during preparation for combat
would not be able to obtain prompt compliance with his requirements to meet emergencies or
to attack an enemy in battle.
He said that the requirements he placed in the training periods served three purposes.
One, they conditioned his command to carry out promptly his instructions to the way which
his men carried out these requirements served as a constant measure to him of his old on
his officers and his men and they with other things helped instill a fierce pride in the
division.
I might add that this officer was one of the most respected division commanders that
I have known even now over 15 years after he left the division, he is the most popular
man present when the division association has a convention.
So all this talk about him not being concerned about me, oh, he is the most popular guy.
I love him, yeah.
Everybody loves this guy.
Why do they love this guy?
Do they love him because he was nice?
Do they love him because he gave him extra brownies and ice cream?
No.
He loved them because he was dis, they loved him because he was disciplined.
That's what they loved.
Later on when I was placed in command of a combat command of the division, I remembered
the procedure off and I was actually when I first read this thing, I thought he was talking
about patent because he worked for patent but patent wasn't alive 15 years later to be
the most popular guy.
So I don't know who it was.
I have to do more research.
And this says an unpopular requirement that paid off.
Later on when I was placed in command of a combat command of the division, I remembered
the procedure often used at 11 worth of attacking at first light in the morning.
One of the reasons for doing this was in hopes of catching the enemy unprepared to resist
attack.
If we were taught this, if we were taught this, probably the enemy did likewise because
of this whenever I had combat command in the field for training, I required every man to
be up, dressed and manning his battle station at first light.
Communications were checked all the way from squad level to me and reports of readiness
were laid from the squad level to me.
After daylight, and if it was decided that no attack was probable, the troops were permitted
to eat breakfast and then proceed with the day's activities.
I talked about this on the earliest of podcasts.
This early morning stand to, that's what it's called, was never popular and there
would be many requests to relax the requirement of it, particularly for men who had been
on guard or night duty.
While these requests were never granted, because these requests were never granted because
I felt that if we were overrun while still asleep, the enemy would not spare the man who
had been late getting into bed.
This procedure was followed in my command throughout the war.
I can say that even in the face of the enemy, it was not particularly popular.
So even though even in combat, guys were like, bro, let me sleep in, sir, let me sleep
in.
Even in combat.
Even in combat, where the enemy might really attack and kill you and overrun you
and people will say, hey, man, can we just get some sleep in the morning?
But he never, he never submitted to that.
And he said, however, it did save elements of my command on several occasions from being
overrun and destroyed in the early morning.
At one time, a portion of the 37th tank battalion.
How cool is that?
The 137.
The 7th.
Shout out to the bandits battle over a body.
A portion of the 37th tank battalion was saved from destruction by an enemy tank brigade
attack in the fog at first light because it was ready.
This particular requirement was probably most unpopular.
My combat command headquarters and there was considerable griping about it on many occasions.
However, one morning when my command was in the rear of the enemy lines east of Nancy,
the headquarters personnel were alert at first light, men were manning their defensive
positions.
Weapons had been checked at communications at the beginning of the established.
In particular, the three tank destroyers attached to my headquarters were in position loaded
and manned.
At first light, a platoon of enemy tanks came into the headquarters area, which in the case
of a combat command headquarters was not very large.
The tank destroyers immediately took them under fire and succeeded in knocking out three
of the tanks.
The other two withdrew.
Our loss during this engagement was only one tank destroyer, which was destroyed by a direct
hit from one of the enemy tanks.
There was much discussion of this attack in the headquarters in the days that followed.
One of the men stated that he never realized how crowded a combat command headquarters
could be when an enemy attack came.
I heard no more comments in my headquarters about the requirement for everybody being dressed
alert in position in daylight.
The purpose of this account is to point out that a commander and leader owes a responsibility
to his men to require them to do things which are for their own benefit and for the benefit
of the command as a whole, even though their requirements are not popular.
So you want to follow a threat, you want to follow a threat, go read the book about face
and read what hack worth did when he took over the 439.
Let's see, it's the exact same story.
What he made these guys do was change their, you had to dig a hole to the sleep first of
all.
They actually started digging in.
They started moving their positions every night.
They started expanding the perimeter, retract their perimeter and by the way, when you dig
a hole in Vietnam or really anywhere, when you dig a fighting hole, a fighting position and
then you're going to move.
Guess what you got to do with that one that you just left.
You got to fill it in.
So if we put out the perimeter and then we move back that night 25 or 50 meters because we
don't want to get mortgages, we know the enemy saw where we were were.
We got to fill in that fighting position because we don't want the enemy to be able to use
it.
So that's a lot of digging to be doing.
To be doing, well guess what, he did this hack worth did this.
Hey, they got rid of all the crap that they had in their battalion CP, they got rid of
all that junk.
They started digging in, they started moving their perimeter and the first time they got
mortgard under his command.
There were no casualties because the elements had moved and guess what?
There was no more complaining.
This is the exact same story.
I wonder where Hack worth figured that out from.
Totally.
Next chapter.
Ethics, conduct, and standards of officers.
Subtitle.
Set an example.
What you know, I had such a good benefit.
I benefited the luck that I had in my career in my life is amazing, but one of the most
amazing things is when I was a young and listed guy in the SEAL teams, I was watching
my lieutenant.
I was tracking.
I was tracking those boys.
When they forgot to piece of gear, I was like, oh, when they were late, oh, I was tracking
them.
I knew that.
I knew I knew better than anyone could have ever taught me or told me.
I was like, well, we're sitting here saying this.
You've said it five times today.
I've said it eight times today.
Your people are watching you.
I could have been told that a hundred times and it wouldn't have been as effective as
me actually knowing what it was like to watch my my bosses.
And note the good and note the bad.
Set an example.
The ethics, conduct, and standards of behavior of a few of our officers are matters of
real concern to me.
Except for a few junior officers, our officers are either regular officers or reserve
officers serving because they chose to do so.
It is up to the latter group to set the proper example in all things for those junior
officers.
It is up to all officers to conduct themselves in such a manner that the prestige of the
army officer will be high in the eyes of the public and of our enlisted men.
And officer who behaves in an unbecoming manner destroys his standing in a unit.
Man, if we broke out and started talking about what's unbecoming for a leader.
Because you know, when you hear the word conduct, I'm becoming an officer.
You think like, oh, this guy is out.
Lack of like an idiot.
What about when that guy shows up 12 minutes late?
What about when that guy does bring the right piece of gear?
What about when that guy loses temper?
Whatever it is.
All those little things.
Yeah.
All those little things add up.
And if you were a leader in an organization, you got to understand that your people are
watching you.
And what that actually is is an opportunity to pull them into your sphere of influence.
Because as a young Marine, I was looking for role models too.
I was looking when I was keeping track of those little things at little slip here, that
little slack over here, that little error here.
And I was looking around when I saw the ones that were holding the line.
That's where I wanted to be.
And if you're that leader, you will pull these people into your sphere of influence.
And you can lead and match them.
And you can have, you can design the culture of the entire unit by yourself just by
setting that right example.
Because you will pull people into your sphere.
And they will follow that lead and they will do the same thing.
And then all of a sudden you got folks down the organization that aren't holding the
line.
You don't have to be the one to go down there and fix it.
Because you've got this little army of people on your little team that are doing that
across the organization.
So I was in the teams back in the day.
And I was getting ready.
I think I was actually I had been picked up for the Seaman to Admiral program.
So I was I had been picked up.
And I was super stoked.
And I was, but I was still at Seal team one.
I had finished out my time there before I went to Austria candidate school.
And then I would go from off-stricated school.
So I either had been picked up.
I think I'd been picked up.
But another guy, another officer, another prior and listed officer who did the program that
I was doing.
Right?
And he'd been picked up and he had gone to off-stricated school and then he showed up at
Seal team one.
So he was, you know, he was almost, he was very similar to me in the fact that we were both
prior and listed guys, he got picked up.
I think it was one year ahead of me.
And he shows up at Seal team one.
And I remember seeing this dude for the first time.
And look, you know, I just looked at him and I was like, damn, this dude is squared away.
And I couldn't even really, I couldn't even really understand.
I said, well, why does this guy's whole uniform look?
Square to away.
This guy looks like he's on another level.
And you know, wearing the locker room or whatever, well, guess what?
He was wearing shirt stays.
Do you know what those are?
I do.
I'm the one who you do.
So he was wearing shirt stays, which is the way that you roll with at OCS.
It's like, you're wearing shirt stays.
That's all there's to it.
So for those of you who don't know it, what shirts stays are.
They are a piece of elastic material that you attach from the bottom of your shirt,
which is tucked in and they run down your legs and then they attach to your socks.
So no matter what happens, your shirt is freaking stay and put.
And it looks like it looks like the uniform on a mannequin.
It looks like that.
Somebody dressed this thing for a mannequin.
And so I remember seeing it going damn, and he just looked everything looks squared
away about him.
He was an awesome physical shape.
Just a great guy.
And he is an incredible guy.
But I remember looking him going damn, this dude is squared away.
And I saw those shirts stays.
I didn't even know what those were.
As an enlisted seal.
You had no idea.
Showed up at OCS.
And you know what?
Those shirts stays.
Because pretty much when you're done with OCS, you'd know, really need to wear them anymore.
Yeah.
Guess what?
He did.
And I did.
I freaking wore those things religiously because that's the difference.
That's the difference.
That's setting the example.
You better look squared away.
Yes.
About 100%.
Oh, the time.
Where do you not want to look squared away?
And look, if you got long-term plans and you want to build a team and you got long-term
plans of having a good team around you, start early.
I remember joining my first quadrant and there is the training officer bill.
It's called the training officer.
It's like the senior of the junior officers.
So it's like kind of like that's elevated himself amongst all the junior pilots that's kind
of an a key leadership role.
And I remember seeing a training and you see a squared away training officer like I want
to be like that guy.
And then that training officer would go away and then a couple of years later he'd come
back to a squadron and he'd be the ops officer, which is like a senior of the middle guys.
And he'd be squared away by the time.
And this guy that that I worked with in my squadron, by the time that guy came back to be
a squadron commander who had been squared away from day one, dudes are running down to
headquarters with cases of very like I want to get in this guy's squadron.
People were fighting to get into his unit.
Was that because he was nice?
Yeah.
Was that because he gave people extra liberty?
Because he was squared away and he held the line and we all wanted to be like him.
And he didn't like wake up one day like, oh, I'm a commander now.
I guess I got to square myself away.
He'd been like that forever.
Dude's were fighting to get in his unit.
You know, I was talking about leadership capital the other day on EF online because somebody
asked a question about it.
And one of the things is your reputation can contain a positive bank account of leadership
capital.
Yeah.
It can also contain a negative bank account of leadership capital.
And if you're not, if you just decide that you're going to get squared away when you're
putting charge, if that's when you make that decision, you're rolling in there with all kinds
of negative bank account.
It's a disaster.
You're with people.
You don't even know your reputation expense well beyond the people that you hang out
with.
Oh, for sure.
In these communities, people know you have heard of you.
People are going to run towards you or avoid you and you don't even know who they are.
And it's all going to be based on your account with them.
How much leadership capital you've built.
And it goes well beyond the sphere that you think you're part of.
Everybody knows you in those leadership roles and they're watching you.
Back to the book.
And then have no further respect for him.
This is for the guy that that behaves and conduct, unbecoming of an officer.
The enlistment have no further respect for him and he can no longer lead or command effectively.
His value to his unit's laundry been distraught when an officer accepts his commission.
He is presumed to have had enough experience to have acquired the ethical and moral
precepts expected of an officer in a gentleman.
The record of long services not an excuse for laxity in this matter.
Damn, he's coming off the top of the right there.
I just put myself in mental check for my whole life.
Too often incidents are brought to my attention involving the intent of use of alcohol.
Drunk and miss at any time in place is disgraceful.
When combined with the operation of a motor vehicle, it becomes a potential killer.
Drunk driving didn't used to be a thing.
Do you know that?
Yeah, I'm driving didn't used to be a fail.
It was a badge of honor back in the day on some units.
When my dad crashed a car drunk in like 1955 or something and the cop like pulled his car
out the camera right home.
I mean, my dad was like, whatever, 19 or something.
And I got hit by a drunk driver when I was kid on a bicycle.
And I got hit by a drunk driver.
I got thrown off my bike.
I had to get stitches in my head.
And my dad was like, oh yeah, it was almost like, it was almost like, well, you know,
you had a little too much drink, no, no factor.
But kiddo, we all right, can we get some money for a new bike because the bike was
trashed.
Nowadays, that would be game over for that guy's whole life, right?
That'd be going to put, would you go to jail for that?
If you hit a kid on a bike while you're drunk, I would say like no question.
We'd be going jail, right?
So it's pretty interesting that way back then he's saying when combined with the operation
of motor vehicle, it becomes a potential killer.
Yeah, he's way out in front of the curve here.
This is someone who's probably spent way more time thinking about that type of character
than others because back then that wasn't a thing.
Yeah, you want to know why he's probably gone to visit all of a bunch of guys in the
hospital that had drunk driving accidents and repaired, you know, had jeeps, had to write off
jeeps and trucks and whatever else.
These results are not only detrimental to the individual, but also to the service, particularly
in overseas commands, commanders at all levels must continually take aggressive action
who do successive drinking and prevent drunk and driving.
Long time ago, again, officers are expected to set the example.
The officer's code, Armyungi Regulation's provide that an officer's signature is in itself
a certification.
His signature is his bond.
A requirement is that an officer is so to conduct himself that he is deserving of such
trust.
The appropriate administrative and disciplinary action must be taken against officers who
are guilty of misconduct and unwilling to live within proper code.
The officer and officer cannot expect to retain his standing and prestige as an officer
where he is inefficient or guilty of becoming conduct.
Each officer must clothe himself with such a scale of values that he knows instinctively
the things that an officer does not do.
The officer's code does not get less binding as he goes up and rank.
The opposite is true.
It becomes more binding.
Dude, this dude is holding the line big time.
I'm feeling like nervous.
As I always have to point out, I was a young wild frog man.
I did not come close to achieving these standards.
I would have loved to have read this book when I was 18, 19, 20.
I would have loved to have this people that were telling me, hey bro, this is the path.
This is it.
This is what you want to do.
And you know what?
It takes to be able to do that.
Here's the reality.
For me to say, hey, you know what?
I made mistakes and I do not want you to make them.
I want you to be better than me.
I want you to be better than I am.
I want you're the end state of your life.
I want to be superior to mine.
That's what drives giving this kind of advice.
Hey, listen, I want the end state of your life to be superior to mine.
That's what we should be thinking when we interact with other people.
We shouldn't have that little thing in the back of our minds at saying, you know what?
I had to do this.
I had to learn the hard way.
I wish I would have done that, but I'd known told me to do that.
Why should I tell him?
What do you got?
Just wrote it down.
Because that's a good one.
That's leadership.
Yeah.
Crazy.
I was recently invited to the US Army Command and General Staff College to address the
faculty and students on the subject of command or ship and general ship.
Following my talk, I was asked to comment on the problem of integrity versus professional
loyalty when an officer is confronted with orders with which he has a strong disagreement.
I answered by citing two examples of my experience.
Once, while I could that, I asked a tactical officer a similar question.
His answer was to carry out the order loyally and then when you are in a tenable position
to recommend changes if warranted.
I have followed this with good results.
So there's your first answer.
Hey, you know, I asked Dave to do something that you don't agree with.
What should you do?
Well, you should carry it out and then you should pull me aside.
When you can soon get a chance to go, hey, General, this doesn't seem like it's a good idea.
Me here's why.
Good.
Got that.
This is a longer example.
In another instance, when I was a commanding general of the US Continental Army Command, we
were charged with the service testing of an expensive and important piece of Army equipment.
This was important enough to assign my deputy, a lieutenant general to monitor closely.
The test went on for several weeks.
One day, my deputy reported to me that the piece of equipment was not proving outside
as factually.
He was fully convinced of his position.
I told him how serious and how sensitive such a finding would be.
I directed that he called in several officers closely concerned with the test for a conference
with me.
This was done in all were unanimous supporting the position of my deputy.
They had beta and results supporting them.
So they're supposed to test his piece of gear.
There's a, it sounds like there's an expected outcome.
It wasn't turned out that way.
I directed that they prepare a personal letter for my signature.
The chief of staff of the army or for my signature for the chief of staff of the army
setting forth their findings and conclusions with supporting data and information.
After proving and signing it, I had my aid delivered by hand to the chief of staff.
Within 48 hours, I had a phone call from the chief of staff.
He was disturbed.
He told me how serious this was.
How important the equipment was and how not only the United States, but an allied power
was interested in it.
He wanted us to take a positive approach and proceed with the program.
My reply, so there you go.
He wrote, hey, there's the problems, these are the shortfalls.
That's what we all agree on.
I'm letting you know.
And his boss says, hey, this is an interesting terminology.
I want you to take a positive approach and proceed.
Take a positive approach and proceed.
So to me, I translate that as a lean towards making this work.
My reply was that I felt I owed him the loyalty to bring the facts as I believe them
to his attention and having done that, I was prepared to carry out fully his further instructions.
The morals of this true story are the chief of staff was in a position to, now this is important.
The chief of staff was in a position to know of considerations and factors of the
higher highest importance, which I could not know.
Now where I think this is, if Dave comes to me and says, hey, I object to this or I got
the issue.
My response, hey, Dave, here's what's going on, man.
Here's why this is important, here's what's happening.
I would tell you why.
Here's some things you see that I don't see.
Here's some things you know, I need to know.
Yep.
I had satisfied both my integrity and professional loyalty as well as my duty to my superior.
I was now free to proceed without compromise on my part.
To take a negative or I told you so attitude would not have been becoming to a member
of the team, all members of which were dedicated to doing their best for the army and their
country.
So, I wrote about this in leadership strategy and tactics, almost that nausea.
But there's so many different ways to talk about it.
And I even want that I cite all the time is the band of brothers, Dick Winters, totally.
Yep.
You do the recon.
Someone gets killed.
The war is literally within days of ending.
You do a recon.
Someone gets killed.
You come back.
You get told to do another recon the next night and you say, got it boss.
And then you go have the guys drink wine and a seller and you don't do the recon.
Is that a good call?
Yep.
Is it supporting the chain of command?
Nope.
Did it protect the guys?
Yes, did it accomplish the mission?
Yes.
Could he have argued it a little bit and I forget from the movie what how they showed it?
I think he pushed back.
He definitely pushed back.
But a certain point pushing back would have just gotten fired and then guess what?
Then they're going on the patrol.
Then they're going on the patrol with the Yes man.
With the Yes man.
Yep.
For sure.
And as you're building, as the story is building up, there's a little part of me too.
But I think a people listening like, so he's already done that.
He's going to now hold the line.
This or I cannot in good conscious put this in a positive light.
Cool.
I'll find somebody who can.
And there's a part in there, the humility that it takes.
He's a four star general in this case to go, you know what?
The chief of staff knows something.
I don't know.
He sees something I don't see.
Can I consider that and try to go out and go, hey, I tell you what.
There's some place over who this piece of equipment actually does work pretty well.
Maybe not here or here.
But here's some positive.
Can I do that?
Yeah, it takes a ton of humility.
But if you don't do that, the influence you lose to actually provide the outcome that
you want, which is exactly what you're saying, think about the humility it takes to go,
maybe I don't have the whole picture.
And this, I'm going to dig my heels in a hole in the line because it's the right thing
to do.
Maybe I actually don't even know the whole story.
Cool.
You're fired.
Right.
Yep.
See you later.
And I'll get a yes man in there and he's going to give me whatever I want for report.
And that's that.
Yeah.
So good.
Next section.
And this is chapter four, prestige of the non-commissioned officer.
And again, once again, I sort of said, well, maybe we don't need to cover this.
And then as I read through it, I realized what this is talking about.
And this is talking about something that I've referred to quite a bit on EF online lately.
So if you think about it from this perspective, it starts to make a lot of sense way beyond
the military.
That is respect, respect.
So prestige of the non-commissioned officer.
So if you think about this from perspective of how do you respect people, how important
that is?
Because that's what he's talking about.
Continuing on, advances in weapon systems over the past few years have forced many
changes in our tactile organization and operational concepts.
The keynotes of our modern army, our mobility, dispersion and small, small, and operations.
This concept coupled with the many new tools of war requires greater reliance than ever before
on our non-commissioned officers.
What do we talk about?
We're talking about front line leaders.
So if you're in civilian world, we're talking about front line leaders.
And guess what?
This guy was in World War I and in World War I, there was not a bunch of reliance.
There was not dispersion, meaning everyone was together.
You're in a big trench, you're all together when the trumpet blows or the whistle sounds
or the signal comes.
We're all going at once.
We're going to go over the top.
We're going to charge.
And with hundreds and hundreds of men at the same time, there's no dispersion.
We're all close together.
It's not small unit operations.
And we're not moving.
So he saw that.
And we're, look, he says mobility, dispersion, and small unit operations.
What was World War I?
It was not mobile.
It was not dispersed.
And it was not small unit operations.
By the time he gets to Korea and then he gets to World War II or sorry World War II and then
Korea, it's totally different.
And now he realizes the importance of the front line leaders.
So how do we rely on these front line leaders?
So if you're thinking about your front line leaders, here's what you need to do.
Fully developed the non-commissioned officer to fulfill his role, a commander must place
with responsibility on him and permit him to assume his place in command.
You have to give them ownership.
In doing this, standards of performance need not be lowered.
Honest errors must be expected and tolerated but corrected.
When your personnel must not use SERP responsibilities which provide the experience needed
in developing our junior leaders.
Don't be the Esman.
Don't be the easy button.
Sorry, don't be the easy button.
Emphasis should be placed on the non-commissioned officer's role.
Leader, trainer, supervisor.
This goes back to the developing the echelon front certification program.
Think about this leader, trainer, supervisor.
He's got them all mixed in like we eventually got to.
I didn't have this book and we were starting to develop the program.
Now that I have it, I'm super stoked that we came to the same conclusion.
And that is that a leader, a trainer, a supervisor, a manager and instructor.
They're all qualities that are needed as you come up the chain of command if you're going
to be in charge of people.
There follows a list of suggested actions that may be taken each by each commissioned officer
at all levels of command to further the efficiency and enhance the stature of the non-commissioned
officer corps.
Again, how do we respect our frontline leaders?
Because the more respect we give them, the more respect they're going to give us, the
more ownership we give them, the more ownership they're going to take.
Affordy.
To prevent the use of non-commissioned officers for menial and degrading tasks.
Okay.
Ensure that non-commissioned officers are consistently addressed by their rank.
So you're giving them that respect.
At here to the chain of command through non-commissioned officer ranks, right?
So you don't jump down to the front line and start talking them without talking to that
front line leader.
Use requirements for officer supervision or mandatory presence at troop formations.
Let the non-commissioned officer take charge.
Give them ownership.
Sometimes for those of you that don't watch the Sun YouTube, when Dave just fully agrees
with something, he doesn't not as head-yes.
He shakes his head no.
As if to say this is just no disputing this at all.
Avoid mass withdrawal of non-commissioned officer privileges but take positive action against
individual concerns so don't do collective punitive actions.
When appropriate, permit key non-commissioned officers to attend staff conferences and commanders
briefings.
Hello.
Take that front line leader, bring him into your higher level meetings, let them see what's
going on.
Ensure that deserving high-quality non-commissioned officers are commended for outstanding
performance of duty by awarding them, combination ribbons, letters of appreciation or
commendation or certificates of achievement or, and this is Jocco's edition, give them
more responsibility, give them more ownership.
Refrain from over supervising the non-commissioned officer after a task has been assigned.
No micromanage, issue mission type instructions rather than detailed orders.
I haven't said that yet on this podcast but when I read these things, I feel like I
owe this guy money.
Whenever possible, place senior non-commissioned officers under the supervision of Commissioner
War Officers, inform non-commissioned officers in advance of significant matters pertaining
to the units such as maneuvers, field problems, training requirements, disciplinary matters,
standards to avoid unfounded rumors and allow for necessary advance planning at all
echelons.
Does it make sense that you keep your unit informed?
You keep your front line leaders informed?
What do you think they do when you don't tell them what's happening?
Do you think they just sit there and silently wait a wait your word?
No, they make shit up.
Make it up, yep.
Is there more?
This is ridiculous how good this is.
Grant, non-commissioned officers.
Again, if you're listening to this and you're not in the military, just replace this with
your front line leaders.
Grant, front line leaders, a greater voice in allowing privileges or awards or warning
punishment.
Consult with them on matters involving the reclassification and promotion of their subordinates.
Let it be known that they greatly influence these matters.
This whole thing is about giving way of responsibility and giving way of ownership.
Use senior non-commission officers to assist in conducting inspections and ensure distribution
of directives to non-commission officers so that they may have current information on military
matters.
Keep your front line leaders informed.
Use senior non-commission officers as instructors, back the actions of non-commission officers
publicly refer to them as non-commission officers, not as NCOs or non-comps, which are two
slang terms which I do all the time.
NCOs, non-comps.
He's saying, give them that and look, it's a little slang term.
Give them that respect.
Yeah, the title is, is the prestige of the non-commission officer.
I mean, that's what he's talking about.
I mean, that was just a recipe for leadership right there and like I said, these are your supervisors.
These are your front line supervisors whose management is of the people right at the point
of friction, the ones doing the work.
So these are your first line supervisors and second line supervisors closest to your people
out there making it happen.
And if you want them to respect you, you gotta give them respect.
If you want them to trust you, you have to trust them.
And if you want them to lead, like you gotta let them lead in every single time, you take
responsibility away from them.
He said in the beginning, you gotta expect them to make mistakes and make errors.
You don't ignore it.
You correct it.
But you don't take responsibility away from them.
If I take, if you do something that's not what I want, you work for me, you're one
of my supervisors.
You go out there and do something that's not how I wanted it.
And if I take that responsibility away from you, that's me telling you, I don't trust
you.
So with the return on me again, that is, you don't trust me as much.
That means I still gotta correct that.
I gotta show you.
Hey, Jockel, that's not what we're looking for.
Let me talk you about why we did this in a while.
Let me explain these things.
But I get you right back out there to go do it.
The reciprocal nature of the relationship, everything you want from them, you have to give
them that it was literally a list.
It is a checklist of leadership to get the behavior that you want.
You and I were on a call with one of our clients the other day and it was, it was one
of those questions came up and there's these four things.
It's a call.
Chris, he was on the call and she was quite fired up.
She's awesome.
She absolutely.
But if you want people to listen to you, listen to them.
If you want people to respect them, respect them.
If you want people to respect you, you have to respect them.
If you want to influence people, you have to allow them to influence you.
And if you want people to trust you, you have to give them trust.
Couple more things on this section, responsibilities.
Insist on a thorough appreciation of the non-commissioned officers full-time responsibility
to his men and to his commander.
Theral appreciation.
What does that mean?
That means respect.
A point senior non-commissioned officer counsels at each level of command starting with
the batined separate.
So again, this idea of creating these councils, these groups within your organization,
so you can get good feedback as brilliant.
Encourage non-commissioned officers, officer participation in civic affairs.
Great.
The last section here is education and training.
This is the last thing we're going to cover.
Nothing can close with prestige.
A non-commissioned officer who does not know his job and does not play the part expected
of him as a non-commissioned officer.
Because of that, we should.
One, hold classes to ensure that non-commissioned officers are thoroughly trained for their
jobs and prepared to handle instructions or duties when they appear before their subordinates.
What is that right there?
Look, I am responsible for making sure that people below me in the chain of command are
right or do their job totally.
Number two, encourage attendance at non-commissioned officers academy and other courses
designed to enhance the prestige and set the standards expected of non-commissioned officers
and three encourage non-commissioned officers to take advantage of the many opportunities to increase
their general level of education.
And what's just amazing about this?
That's just another 13 pages of this document, which is 117 pages long.
We made it through another, I think we might have made it through 14 pages.
But the section that closes out is to treat people with respect and give them responsibility
and train them and educate them.
To take care of your people.
Now let's point this out.
I don't care how good of a leader you are.
If you don't invest in these subordinates, it doesn't matter what you do.
Those front line leaders are the ones that win.
They're also the ones that lose.
So invest in them.
Treat them with respect.
Listen to them.
Allow them to influence you.
Give them trust.
And I don't care what your job is or what your vocation is in life.
You have to work with people.
Take care of those people and those people are going to take care of you.
And speaking of taking care of people, Dave, I know that you know that when the aircraft
cabin loses pressure, the oxygen masks drop down.
And you have to take care of others.
Of course.
But before you take care of others, you have to take care of yourself to make sure that you
have enough oxygen to live so that you can then put the oxygen masks on your children.
So even though we need to take care of others and we need to take care of ourselves.
First we got some ways of doing that.
One of the ways is Jaco fuel, which is supplements.
We got a bunch of them.
We got joint warfare, acrylic oil.
We got discipline, discipline, go.
We got discipline with the cans.
Are you on number two right now?
Number two.
What flavors have you torn to today?
Tax average, Jaco Palmer.
What's the preference?
That doesn't actually count the one I had earlier today.
For my get.
So I guess I'm one number three.
We got vitamin D, D3, Cold War.
Look, there's all kinds of diseases out there.
I'm not making any claims.
But some of us haven't caught those diseases.
So yeah, check that out.
Walk or your kid, walk, adult, which is just dessert.
We got, oh wait, we got a new flavor coming.
It's so good.
It says like allegedly we're doing it seasonal, but this thing ain't going to be seasonal.
This thing is going to be all the time.
It's smashing pumpkin.
And I don't even know, look, I don't even know what pumpkin things are.
Are supposed to taste like or whatever.
But damn, this thing is good.
It's so good.
It's like a pumpkin.
The original B little sent me.
It was the generic name, the flavor name.
It was pumpkin spice.
And so I don't even know, I mean, you don't really eat pumpkin.
Walk, right?
I mean, there's a pumpkin pie.
I get it.
But you're not sitting around, you know, going to the store grab and a piece of pumpkin
and eating it.
That's not happening.
Not not my house.
OK.
Negative.
So you're not even really a hundred percent sure what pumpkin flavor is.
Are you?
Is anyone the only thing I think of as pumpkin pie at Thanksgiving maybe, but to be honest
with you?
So I don't even know what we're doing, but all I know is we created something that's
a freaking tasty.
It's got like a, I guess if you ever had egg nog before, yeah.
It's sort of an egg nog cinnamon scenario.
Sweet, just monk fruit, but it's so good.
Anyways, we got that.
We got that going on.
All this stuff.
We got chocolate, vitamin shop.
You can get all this stuff at the vitamin shop.
Also, if you're in Florida right now, you can get this stuff at Wawa.
Coming soon, hopefully, to all Wawa's.
If you're in Florida, and you want to just kind of just fall on support the cause,
great.
There's a good way to support the cause.
Go in there and just clean them out.
Go get your Wawa on.
Also, you can get this stuff at originmain.com.
What do I miss?
I miss anything?
Nope.
I'm on board with all that.
I'll be, I'm actually excited about that new milk.
Nobody has knocked strawberry off the top of the platform.
That is still remain.
So is your number two?
I go to.
Hey, speaking of speaking of discipline go in the can of what you've had, too.
Three.
What flavor do you have earlier today?
I had, oh, I had a second, jockel Palmer.
Okay.
Is that your kind of go through?
No, I'll be honest with you.
I drink all of them.
I don't even look for flavors and more recent in the game.
Dude, I'm just in the game.
There is not one that I can't just be totally stoked to be drinking.
No, will there be one in the future that you'll be more stoked to be drinking?
No, yeah, I think there might be.
So tell us.
So let's talk to us afterburner or just coming out afterburner or yeah.
Dave Burke is getting his own signature flavor.
It's so crazy to think that I'm getting my own signature flavor of a product that I
actually already love anyway.
But I'll be honest with you.
When Pete and Brian at the team like, hey, bro, we would love to have you be part of this.
I immediately went to my all time favorite soft drink, which I don't drink anymore,
which is orange, crush or orange soda, whatever that was back when we were kids.
I don't drink it, but I'll tell you, it's the best thing I've ever, I mean, as I can.
You're saying you don't drink anymore because you're just not going to sit around drinking.
Dude, I don't drink soda.
Yeah, I don't sit around drinking orange juice.
You're a human.
But you don't want to have conduct unbecoming when all's just saying, I'm sucking down sugar.
Negative.
But I would be lying if I didn't tell you that I don't miss that flavor big time.
So they were like, hey, what do you think?
And it was immediate like, bro, or I love orange.
And then that connection after a mirror was so easy, because who thought of after a mirror
orange?
I think it was me.
I really do.
Cool.
Yeah, cool.
And of course, they designed it.
Wait, did you have it going into the conversation did you have it?
Well, kind of like they had mentioned, hey, I think the thing was like, hey, think about
it.
It'd be cool to do something.
The relationship with Scott Floddard.
No.
Just that was it.
It was.
Hey, you should do one.
I thought about it.
I said, hey, what do you think of this?
And people's like, done, we're executing.
And then Brian executed and it happened and it was totally good to go.
Would you know when the release date is?
I think it's like in the next month.
I think it's next month.
I think it's even.
Wait, what month?
No member.
So it's coming out November.
I think so.
After burner orange, yes.
The Dave Burke signature signature drink.
Yeah.
I'm playing on it.
What kind of plane did they put on it?
NF 35, silhouette.
Oh, dang.
Did you influence that?
Maybe.
She might have made sure it was the Marine Corps variant.
Oh, damn.
Layers.
In the business, we call those layers.
Absolutely.
Dang.
Even though when you were a charge, when you were a squadron commander, was that
a Marine Corps squadron?
Yes.
I was a Marine Corps squadron with the Marine Corps variant of the plane.
What did you do with the Air Force?
You take over to Air Force squadron at some point.
Air Force Division.
That was the F-22 Raptor.
That was a straight up Air Force Unit Air Force aircraft.
I was a Marine in an Air Force squadron.
Inside that squadron had a division of all these different airplanes.
One was the Raptor Division and that's where I operated.
Dang.
Yeah.
Check.
All right.
So we got all these cool drinks and they're good for you.
Which I know it doesn't make sense because people don't understand how it can happen.
I'll tell you how it can happen.
You don't cut corners.
You maintain the screw me on your product to make sure that it's not junk.
So like I said, vitamin shop, originmain.com.
You can get them and wall-wall.
Soon to be worldwide.
Also if you want to get your gear, you're going to need your gear because you want
to train your gear because it's going to free your mind.
It is going to free your mind.
Go to originmain.com.
You can get these rash guards.
You can also get shorts, t-shirts, joggers and guess what just went back in the production.
Do you know Dave?
I don't.
Oh, little something called Delta jeans and I'll tell you what.
They're freaking savage.
I said one time and Pete got a big, what is it?
A chuckle out of this.
Which you can picture.
Pete chuckling, right?
He's kind of a chuckler.
He was chuckling when I said that Delta jeans are the greatest thing that I've ever put
on my legs.
And yeah, so check out that.
We got boots there.
All that stuff's available.
It's all made in America and that is what we're doing.
We're bringing manufacturing back to America.
That is what we're doing.
Go to originmain.com for that.
We also have another store which echo named Jockel's store.
Did I go name it that?
Yes, he did.
He legitimately did.
I guess Sarah was going to take the hit on the lack of creativity.
But I'm going to say echo is definitely involved in making Jockel's store.
Jockel's store.com.
We got Raskart's T-shirts, hats, beanies, all that kind of stuff.
We got Warrior Kids soap there.
So you can stay clean.
So check out Jockel's store.com.
All this stuff will help support the podcast as well.
Don't forget to subscribe to the podcast.
Leave a review.
I also have some other podcasts.
One's called unraveling, Jockel unraveling with Darrell Cooper.
Another one's called the debrief podcast.
We're just still on this thread for now.
But we talk about just pure leadership.
It's a little shorter.
We try and make it a little bit more concise because we know leaders are out there working.
You don't always have time for a three hour podcast.
Grounded podcast.
Warrior Kids podcast.
We have a YouTube channel where you can check out to see echoes.
Videos that he makes where he puts just a ridiculous amount of fire and explosions.
He's not here to defend himself.
This is boring.
YouTube channel.
Psychological warfare, album tracks, MP3.
Flipsidecam is.com to go to my making cool stuff to hang on your wall.
Got a bunch of books about face, the thread that leads to this book that we're talking
about today about face.
I wrote the forward to the newest version.
You can check that out also the code the evaluation protocol written by Dave Burke and me
and Sarah Armstrong.
Leadership strategy and tactics field manual.
The answer to all the questions.
Yeah, leadership strategy and tactics field manual.
Way the warrior kid 1, 2 and 3.
Way of the warrior kid 4.
Field manual.
Available for pre-order right now.
Hey, guess what?
I used to make fun of my publisher and say they're scared about ordering too many books.
They don't know how many books to order.
I'm telling them if you pre-order this, it lets me know how many books to order because
this is hard to sit on a bunch of books.
I want to produce the amount that I need.
I don't want anyone to get Christmas to come and you got no way to work it for.
Field manual.
So pre-order that if you want, mic in the dragon to get some of that.
This one is freedom field manual and brand new versions out.
Got a bigger picture of my head on the cover.
Oh, we want to make it.
We want to make a new version.
We want to be better.
Oh, what should we do?
Make the picture of my head bigger.
Is that supposed to make it better on what they're thinking?
Also extreme ownership and the dichotomy of leadership.
The OG books check those out.
Excellent front.
It's our leadership consultancy.
We solve problems through leadership.
Go to slonfront.com.
Hey, if you want me or life or Dave or JP or anyone on the slonfront team to come and talk
to your company, don't Google Jocco speaker.
Go to slonfront.com.
If you Google Jocco speaker, there's going to be people that are paying Google words to
get you to click on their thing.
They're going to be a middle man.
You don't need them.
Go to slonfront.com.
If you want to get some other training for leadership, go to efonline.com.
This is what we do.
We teach leadership.
There's courses on there.
What you would live Q&A is all the time.
There's a forum.
There's other people in Rackwit.
There's leadership primers.
There's immediate ax drills.
There's questions.
There's all kinds of stuff.
If you're in a leadership position, go there.
Guess what?
You're in a leadership position.
If you interact with other human beings, you're in a leadership position.
What else on a efonline, Dave?
We're there live all the time.
We're there yesterday.
We're there tomorrow.
You don't even know what day it is that you're listening to this podcast because it's
either going to be today or tomorrow.
You can talk to us directly live.
So come join us.
What is something awesome?
What is a question for Dave Burke?
What should they do?
They should come to efonline and ask me that question.
What if they have a question for JP to not watch the day?
The same thing.
What if they have a question for me?
What if they say, well, you know, I Twitter, I sent nine tweets to Jocco, but he
an answer because he has to 80 million tweets.
What should I do?
Same thing.
Go to efonline.
It's awesome.
Go to efonline.com.
We have a live event.
Muster 2020.
As the only one we're doing in 2020, we have, this is not the first live event we're doing.
We've done other live events.
I know you've done some live events.
I know I've done live events.
Look, they're social distance.
You can maintain the social distance.
We'll have the appropriate measures in place so that you can come to the muster.
It will be fully engaged.
Look, one thing that's kind of cool.
At the muster, at the previous musters before COVID, there's a thousand people there.
There's 800 people there.
There's 900 people there.
So that means 900 people trying to talk to us during the breaks.
Whatever.
There's no green room.
If you've never heard of the green room, we're there.
We're talking.
If you want to hang out with us, if you want to get some information directly from us,
come to the muster, there's probably going to be a fraction.
I would say there's going to be less than half.
Probably going to be less than 500 people at the muster.
Believe me, you spread that out over a couple of days.
You're going to talk to us, ask the questions.
We'll do whatever we need to do to make sure that you come away from that with the knowledge
that you need.
Go to extremeownership.com for details there.
Of course, we have EF Overwatch if you need leadership in your team, which you do, we have
we are selecting leaders from the military that understand the principles we talk about all
the time and we're placing them into civilian companies into your business.
Go to GFOverWatch.com if you need leaders in your company.
If you want to help service members, active and retired, if you want to help their families,
if you want to help gold star families around the world, then check out Mark Lee's mom.
Mom and Lee, she's got a charity organization.
If you want to donate or you want to get involved, then go to americasmideawereers.org.
And if you look, if you just are constantly seeking that hard path and you want to do things
that are tough, do things that cause you a little bit of suffering, then maybe you want
more of my gutteral groans as I talk.
Or maybe you want more of Dave's frothing phonetics.
Well, either way, you can find us on the in a web, on Twitter, on Instagram, and on Facebook,
Dave is at David R. Burke, and I am at Jocca Willink, and thanks once again to general Bruce
Clark for your service to America and for leaving these lessons of leadership behind
for us.
And thanks to all those people in uniform out there right now that are utilizing these lessons
to protect freedom in the world and to police law enforcement, firefighters, paramedics,
EMTs, dispatchers, correctional officers, border patrol, secret service, all of the first responders.
Thank you for protecting us from chaos and mayhem here at home and to everyone else,
remember these lessons from general Clark.
Remember the importance of time.
That's where we started this whole thing today.
Don't forget about that one.
Remember the importance of time.
The clock is ticking.
Trying to anticipate problems.
Be reliable, be knowledgeable, show initiative.
And when you cast judgment, which I do I read these books, I think, oh, that person.
I wish that person would do that.
I wish that person would do the other thing.
And I remember that when you cast judgment, start off by judging yourself because it all
starts with you.
Until next time, this is Dave and Jocco.